Add Experimentation Documentation (#10303)
harness/developer-hub: docs/feature-management-experimentation/60-experimentation/experiment-results/analyzing-experiment-results/health-check.md

---
title: Health check
sidebar_position: 40
---

## Experiment health check

> The experiment health check provides an at-a-glance view of the sample data entering your experiment. When your health check is green (showing a green heart icon with a checkmark), you can be confident that your metric calculations are trustworthy and reflective of the true value of your metrics for each experiment variation.

Author: ```suggestion
The experiment health check provides an at-a-glance view of the integrity of your experiment's exposure data before you interpret the results. When all checks are passed (showing a green heart icon with a checkmark), you can be assured that your experiment has collected enough clean, reliable, and correctly attributed data and that the metric results are ready to review.
```

<img src="https://help.split.io/hc/article_attachments/35737119980301" alt="experiment_health_check_popup.png" width="400" />

The Health Check is found at the top left of an Experiment page, and shows how experiment data conforms to the following criteria:
* **Seasonality effect completeness (for sequential testing):** A healthy experiment has run for its defined time duration, so the likelihood of a seasonality effect is small.
* **Experimental review period completeness (for fixed horizon testing):** Fixed horizon testing is designed to identify subtle effects that are detectable only over a longer period of time, so peeking is strongly discouraged until the experimental period is complete (at which time the value will be healthy, showing the green heart symbol).
* **Sample ratio:** In a healthy experiment, the actual percentage of samples per experiment variation is in ratio with the targeting percentages. Sample ratio agreement shows that the experiment’s variation assignments are truly random, not affected by unanticipated factors.

> * **Number of sample exclusions:** When the experiment is healthy, few samples are excluded from the experiment calculations. (Exclusions can happen when targeting rules change and keys are reallocated. In this case, some keys are excluded to avoid vacillating between experiment variations, because they would not be reflective of a single variation. A high number of exclusions can affect the experiment and indicates that metric results should be interpreted with caution.)

Author: ```suggestion
* **Sample exclusions:** A healthy experiment has no to low exclusions, ideally with fewer than 2% of samples  excluded from any variant. Exclusions can occur when targeting rules change, leading to reallocation and the removal of samples that might otherwise switch between treatments. A high exclusion rate may compromise result reliability and should be reviewed before interpreting metrics.
```

# Health check details

> The health check details can help you validate your interpretation of experimental statistics. Details also help you understand the severity of any failed check and lead you to the next steps to troubleshoot.
> 
> When you click the **See details** link on the Health Check popup, you will see a slide out modal with your seasonality effect / experimental review period, sample ratio, and sample exclusion details. The possible values for these criteria and additional useful references are described in the sections below.

Author: ```suggestion
You can drill into your experiment's health check to view detailed breakdowns of each check. These details clarify what each check evaluates, help you assess the severity of any issues, and guide your next steps for troubleshooting. Clicking the **See details** link in the Health check pop-up opens a slide-out panel with information on your experiment's duration (seasonality period for Sequential Testing and experimental review period for Fixed Horizon), sample ratio alignment, and exclusion rates. The possible values for these criteria and additional userful references are described in the sections below.

When you click the **See details** link on the Health Check popup, you will see a slide out modal with your seasonality effect / experimental review period, sample ratio, and sample exclusion details. The possible values for these criteria and additional useful references are described in the sections below.
```

## Seasonality effect completeness (for sequential testing)

### Possible values
 * <img src="https://help.split.io/hc/article_attachments/35736723897741" alt="experiment_health_check_healthy_heart.svg" width="24" style={{verticalAlign: 'middle'}} /> Seasonality effect complete
 * <img src="https://help.split.io/hc/article_attachments/35737082048269" alt="experiment_health_check_warning_heart.svg" width="24" style={{verticalAlign: 'middle'}} /> Seasonality effect incomplete
 * <img src="https://help.split.io/hc/article_attachments/35736723898509" alt="experiment_health_check_blank_heart.svg" width="24" style={{verticalAlign: 'middle'}} /> Experimental review period not started
 
### Importance of seasonality effect completeness

> While sequential testing is designed to accrue results incrementally, seasonality patterns (such as weekend or holiday spikes or dips in user activity, daily network bandwidth changes, etc.) can affect data. The seasonality effect completeness result tells you if your experiment time duration is complete.

Author: ```suggestion
While sequential testing is designed to accrue results incrementally, seasonality patterns (such as weekend or holiday spikes or dips in user activity, daily network bandwidth changes, etc.) can affect data. 
```
